Holden Sandlar
Advanced Computer Architecture
Completed 4-3-2012
HCPU - MIPS SIMULATOR

All instructions are working except for SIMD, MUL, DIV

There are a number of console based commands to run the simulator detailed both
in the README file and also if you type help or ? at the simulator prompt

The short version of the command details is that there are several types of 
simulator prompt commands I have implemented for ease of debugging and control.
It is possible to toggle debugging of particular types of operations during 
simulation (see the debug commands for more info on this) but by default
all debug toggle switches are true. 

This means that as you step through each machine cycles (using command "n")
you will see a snapshot of what is in each stage of the pipeline, where
the program counter is, and what is currently held in each register.
If you wish to run the entire program and look only at the last state
of the system, as well as desired statistics (metrics) use command "c".

Annotated assembly code can be found in file: "FULL-annotated.asm"
Annotated machine  code can be found in file: "FULL-MC-Annotated.MC"

Executable can be found at: HCPU.exe

When the Processor simulator starts it will load it's program memory
from the file "MACHINE_CODE" which is a non-annotated version of
"FULL-MC-Annotated.MC"

*Quick note about the program:
	Program memory is loaded with an interrupt vector at 0xFF pointing to
	an ISR. For interrupts, the pipeline is fully cleared of instructions
	then state of the system is stored, the interrupt service routine
	pointed to by the interrupt vector is called and when the interrupt
	service routine is finished the state of the system is restored.
	Due to my implementation of ISR's, the interrupt service routine
	cannot be stepped through, but is executed in one large stream.
	If you want to see what the ISR did, make sure your terminal buffer
	is long enough that you will be able to scroll back up through the ISR
	execution.

Please take a look at the !!README.txt file in the project directory 
for more details

Enjoy!